=============================
AlphaPeel 1.2.0 Release Notes
=============================


Highlights
==========
- Updated option names.
- Support for new IO options.
- Updated output file format.
- Fix bug of output of half-founders with ``-out_id_only``.
- Fix bug of incorrect status of some genotyped founder.


Improvements
============

Support for separated genotype and haplotype thresholds inputs and corresponding output options
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, the user could only input one threshold for both genotype and haplotype outputs. Now, ``-geno_threshold``, ``-hap_threshold`` enable seperated thresholds input and ``-geno``, ``-hap`` enable the seperated control over corresponding output files.

(`gh-115 <https://github.com/AlphaGenes/AlphaPeel/pull/115>`_, `gh-119 <https://github.com/AlphaGenes/AlphaPeel/pull/119>`_)


Support for the option to enable segregation output file
--------------------------------------------------------

Previously, the segregation file would be outputted by default. Now, the segregation file would not be outputted by default and user can use option ``-seg_prob`` to enable segregation output file.

(`gh-119 <https://github.com/AlphaGenes/AlphaPeel/pull/119>`_)


Support for separated estimations of genotype error and sequence error
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, the estimations for both genotype error and sequence error could only be activated at same time. Now, seperated activations of the estimations are enabled by options ``-est_geno_error_prob`` and ``-est_seq_error_prob``.

(`gh-122 <https://github.com/AlphaGenes/AlphaPeel/pull/122>`_)


Deprecations
============

``-no_seg`` option is deprecated
-------------------------------
See above, ``-seg_prob`` is used instead.

(`gh-119 <https://github.com/AlphaGenes/AlphaPeel/pull/119>`_)


Compatibility Notes
===================

Changes to option names
-----------------------
Most of the option names of AlphaPeel are now updated to improve the readability and consistency, a summary of the updates can be seen at the `table <https://github.com/AlphaGenes/AlphaPeel/issues/113#issue-1935197000>`_.


Changes
=======

* Bug of output of half-founders with ``-out_id_only`` is now fixed.
* Bug of incorrect status of some genotyped founder is now fixed.